[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Folks ask all the time,
where's the proof of UFOs--
give me the proof,
give me the proof.
How about evidence?
What I like to do is, I
like to look at documents.
I like to look at
military documents
in particular that show
an interest in these UFOs.
And I think that's
important, because when
you look at enough of these
military documents that
show a very particular interest
in these unidentified flying
objects doing things that are
not supposed to be possible,
and they're noted
again and again
and again in the military
documents that we have
available, then you have
to think, all right,
there's something going
on here, there's something
that I need to look at.
That may not be
proof that they're
extraterrestrial or alien,
but it's pretty interesting,
you have to agree.
To me, one of the most
interesting documents
that we have available
to us in this regard
is a September 23, 1947, memo
by an American general named
Nathan Twining.
And Nathan Twining was
very, very big deal
within the United
States Air Force.
He, in fact, later went on
to be a four-star general.
In 1947, he had three stars.
And he became the Chief of Staff
of the United States Air Force
during the 1950s.
Powerful man.
In 1947, these flying
saucers were being seen
all over the United States.
They were being written
about in newspapers.
And a lot of military people
were reporting these objects.
It wasn't just something
that civilians were seeing.
And so, there was a general
named Charles Schulgen
who wrote to Twining.
And he just wanted
to know, is this
a thing that I need to
be dealing with or not?
And on September 23,
1947, Nathan Twining
wrote back to Charles Schulgen,
and he made a very particular
statement--
in three pages, typed
memo to this general
where he made an
astonishing statement.
He said this phenomenon is real,
not visionary or fictitious.
Now, right off the
bat, that's kind
of an important thing,
because in 1947,
and '48, and '49, and
all through the '50s,
all through the '60s and beyond,
the United States government
has always told the
public that these flying
saucers, these UFOs are
not real, are visionary,
are fictitious.
But here is, in a
classified memo,
Twining is telling another
general exactly the opposite.
Now, when I first read
that, many years ago, I
thought, that's interesting,
I want to know more.
Well, indeed, in this memo,
Twining gives you a lot more.
He writes a number
of specific qualities
that these objects had that
military personnel were noting.
It's a very meticulous,
very exact list.
He writes, "The reported
operating characteristics such
as extreme rates of
climb, maneuverability--
particularly in roll--
and action which must be
considered evasive when sighted
lend belief to the possibility
that some of the objects
are controlled either manually,
automatically or remotely."
Twining then went
on to list some
of the other specific
characteristics
of these objects.
One, metallic or
light-reflecting surface.
Two, absence of trail,
except in a few instances
when the object,
apparently, was operating
under high-performance
conditions.
Three-- my personal favorite--
circular or elliptical
in shape, flat on bottom
and domed on top.
He goes on to talk about several
well-kept formations of flight
and--
oh, yes-- silence.
They don't make any sound.
This is a really
amazing thing here,
to be telling this specific
statement to another general
who's inquiring.
Now, a couple of other
things about this memo
are interesting.
UFO skeptics have pointed
out that Twining explicitly
said, well, we don't have any
of these that we've acquired,
so there must not have
been any crash retrieval--
and that would seem to rule
out Roswell, for example.
But you've got to be
careful before you
make that conclusion.
Keep in mind, Twining's writing
to another general who probably
didn't have a full need to
know, who had a lower rank,
and who was just simply
making an inquiry.
Assuming something like
Roswell did happen and was real
and that Twining
knew about it, he
wouldn't be allowed just to tell
any other general willy-nilly
what had happened
at Roswell, so it
wouldn't be able to come out.
But one thing Twining did say
in this memo is that it did not
appear to be any kind of
secret American project, which
was, in all likelihood,
one of the things
Charles Schulgen was
expecting to hear--
and he didn't hear it.
Twining did not say that
this was an American project.
All other evidence
that we have of 1947,
all the other conversations
going on within the Air Force
and within Air Force
scientists lend further support
to the fact that these
were not secret projects.
No one knew who
they belonged to,
no one knew who they were from.
And Twining is basically
saying the same thing here.
What you have in this
memo, fundamentally--
let's keep our eyes on the
main point here-- in this memo,
you've got a senior US general
saying that these flying
disks are real.
He's not shouting it
from the rooftops,
he's just telling one other
general in a classified
statement at the time.
You know, if it were not for the
Freedom of Information Act that
was passed in the
US during the 1970s,
we really wouldn't have most
of these types of documents
that have come down to us.
The people who wrote
these documents back
in the '40s and '50s
had no expectation ever
that these documents would
ever see the light of day.
It took decades before most
of these were available,
and even now we
have a smattering,
but there's still a lot
that are not available.
The Twining memo, though,
was an important one.
And UFO researchers are
pretty well aware of it,
but even now, it seems
to me astonishing
that most of the general public
just doesn't know about it.
It's not proof that
UFOs are alien-- no,
I would never say that--
but it sure as heck is
proof that the flying saucer
phenomenon of the 1940s was
being taken very seriously--
very seriously--
by top generals in the United
States command structure.
And hey, that's a good place
to start, don't you think?
I want to stop and talk about
some of these characteristics,
like flat on bottom,
domed on top.
Just stop for a moment
and think about this.
What aircraft, in
1947 no less, could
be described in that manner?
And the answer is
absolutely none.
There was no
aircraft in the world
that could be described as
flat on bottom, domed on top--
at least nothing that we,
officially, know about.
Maybe if you've got secret
German saucers zipping around.
But we'd still have to
prove that one as well,
and that would be a big deal.
Whatever the answer is,
it's a big, big deal here.
Twining was going off
of many military reports
that were already circulating.
He wasn't just making
this up out of thin air.
So metallic-looking objects
that were of high performance,
that were silent, that had
exceptional maneuverability,
that were flat on bottom
and domed on top--
what is this all about?
Can you imagine what would
the reaction of the world
be if that particular memo had
been made public at that time?
It doesn't really take
a lot of imagination
to realize that would have
a transformative effect
on public opinion
and people would
be pounding at the White
House door, probably the very
next day, demanding answers.
But of course, it
was a secret memo,
and the funny thing is, when it
finally saw the light of day,
when it finally was really
publicized in the late 1970s,
it was almost as if it
just dropped down a little
into a little black hole and
hardly anyone commented on it.
So an astonishing thing.
This is a document
that's a true bombshell.
And when you read it,
you can recognize it.
And this is the
story of UFO research
for years and years and years.
You've got these amazing
documents that are staring you
in the face telling you
this incredible story,
and the response from
the major media, response
from the political institutions,
the response from academia
is one big, extended yawn.
Like they just don't
care, I suppose.
Well, I care.
And I have a feeling
if you get to study
these types of documents,
you're going to care too.
I would like to know--
what the heck was Nathan
Twining talking about?
He clearly had a clue.
And the question is,
what was he driving at?
And most importantly, who
and what were behind those
reports that military
personnel were seeing?
Who's driving those things?
These are the great
unanswered questions
of the UFO phenomenon.
Someone, something is
in control of them.
And this Twining
memo is just one
of many important
documents that exist,
that attest to that reality.
Let's not forget that.
Nathan Twining moved
in the highest circles
of the American national
security community.
He knew everyone,
everyone knew him.
He went on to be Chief of Staff
of the United States Air Force.
He was in the perfect
position to know the things
that he was talking about.
One of the other interesting
things about this memo
is that this, really,
is the origin--
the true origin-- of what would
later become Project Blue Book.
That is the Air
Force's official office
to study the UFO reports.
Out of it became the
predecessor of Blue Book,
which was called Project Sign.
But one of the things that
Twining mentioned in this memo
was that the more
important UFO reports
should be sent to various
places within the US
military and scientific
command structure.
One of those places, by the
way, was the Atomic Energy
Commission.
And the AEC, as it
was called, was really
one of the lesser-known
but very important
repositories for UFO
reports that, to this day,
have almost no oversight.
But this memo of
Twining's really
got the whole ball
started, in terms
of a formal, bureaucratic
response within the Air Force
to the UFO phenomenon.
Now, in all likelihood,
these reports
were being monitored
by higher-ups.
But Twining's memo began a
series of events that ended up
in the creation of Project Blue
Book a couple of years later,
and that's kind of interesting.
[MUSIC PLAYING]